# Customisable Arduino Web Server #

## Keywords ##

Arduino, IOT, ESP32, Web Server

## Introduction ##

This library supports the development of web servers for IOT applications 
on ESP32 based systems.

Creating a web server using the Arduino WiFi library requires you to manage 
all of the low level details of HTTP communication with the user's browser. 
This library does the bulk of that for you including parsing HTTP commands 
and their query parameters. You just need to provide a function to specify 
the HTML to be sent to the user's browser. 

A complete web server, which will generate a simple web page containing the 
heading "Test Server" is shown below. This is useful for checking that your 
hardware is working and that the access point details are correct.

## Examples ##

```
#include "custom_server.hpp"
 
String ssid     = "some access point";
String password = "some password";
 
custom_server* server;
 
void setup()
{
  Serial.begin(115200);
  delay(2000);
  server = new custom_server();
  server->start("Test Server", ssid, password);
}
 
void loop()
{
}
```

To customise this default server to display a different page, is just a 
matter of deriving a new class from the custom_server class and
overriding its send_content function. A complete example of such a derived class
is shown below.

```
#include "custom_server.hpp"
 
class my_server: public custom_server
{
  public:
 
    my_server(): custom_server()
    {
    }
 
  protected:
 
    void send_content(WiFiClient& client)
    {
      send_standard_header(client);
      client.println
      (
        "<!DOCTYPE html>"
        "<html>"
        "  <head>"
        "    <title>My Page</title>"
        "    <meta name='viewport' content='width=device-width, initial-scale=1'>"
        "  </head>"
        "  <body>"
        "    <h2>MyPage</h2>"
        "    <p>This is my page. Isn't it great!"
        "  </body>"
        "</html>"
      );
    }
}; 
```

## Documentation ##

The documentation and a series of example programs show how web servers that
control and retrieve information from hardware sensors can be constructed
and demonstrate more advanced servers that support AJAX techniques. JavaScript 
to support this on web pages can be automatically generated by build-in
functions of the custom_server library. 

[Documentation Link](https://carinasagittarius.co.uk/articles/Custom-Server/docs/)
